DJANGO and FLASK
Server Libraries for Python (Both are popular and while we are learning FLASK, we are sure to see DJANGO in future.

Some Windows use: python --version
Some Windows use: py --version
Macs will    use:python3 --version

PIP
Python Installer Program? Launcher program

-m stands for module

example:
program   module   installer program    command (this one asks for version)
python      -m             pip              --version

cls = "Clear Screen" gets rid of the clutter

The many versions of Python can cause issues
It is opensource and sometimes the community can change the way certain libraries work and if you have the wrong version it will stop working.

Note: It may be necessary to launch CMD as an administrator to write to disk. (easiest way is to right click the prompt and select 
"run as administrator".


Creating a Virtual Machine or Virtual Environment
1.) Be sure it's inside the folder of the project we want to create. python -m pip install virtualenv


2.) Create new folder for virtual environment (venv)
   program    module   module being called     new folder name   
     py         -m             venv                   venv

3.) EACH TIME WE WANT TO ACTIVATE SERVER WE NEED TO ACTIVATE IT

MAC 
source venv/bin/activate

WIN 
venv\Scripts\activate  

(can also deactivate it with deactivate)
On Windows you want to see (venv) before the command prompt.

4.) Open folder inside VSC

5.) Double check that AUTOSAVE is disabled.

6.) Create a .py file and open that inside your cmd venv folder and see if it executes.

7.) install flask
py -m install flask

8.) from .py file in VSC type following code: 
from flask import Flask

# debug needs to be True for development and False at Prodcution
 app.run (debug=True) 

Create an endpoint:
#remember / is the root directory 
@app.get ("/")
def home():
    return "hello from flask"

Create another endpoint:
@app.get("/test")
def test():
    return "this another endpoint named test"

API Application Programming Interface
It's a piece of software to act as an interface to other devices.
API doesn't interact with users, it only works with other devices

API uses JSON or XML

be sure to 
import json       after getting flask at top of document 

.dumps is an instruction to JSON to dump info

